# NAME

wsf - Web Service Faker

# VERSION

This document describes wsf version {{\[ version \]}}.

# USAGE

    shell$ WEBSERVICE_FAKE=/path/to/fake.yml wsf daemon

# DESCRIPTION

This application allows building fake web services. Well, they might be
real... but don't trust the apps you will generate to be too powerful.

## Configuration File Definition

The input definition file is YAML-formatted and its path is taken from
environment variable `WEBSERVICE_FAKE`. By default, file
`webservice-fake.yml` in the current directory is used. This file will be
called _configuration_ file in the following.

The highest level is a key/value pairs hash. The following keys have
a special meaning:

- `defaults`

    key/value pairs that will be taken as default values for some elements in
    the ["routes"](#routes). You can set the following items, see ["routes"](#routes) for
    details on each one:

    - ["body\_wrapper"](#body_wrapper), a possible wrapper to be applied to each body generated
    by ["routes"](#routes). This can come handy to factor most of your response in
    a single place, and concentrate only on the _parts that change_;
    - ["code"](#code), defaulting to `200`;
    - ["headers"](#headers) - note that in this case the values specified here are
    _added_ to the ones in each specification in ["routes"](#routes), so be sure to
    only put the ones that have to appear in _every_ response;
    - ["template\_start"](#template_start) for [Template::Perlish](https://metacpan.org/pod/Template::Perlish), defaulting to `[%`;
    - ["template\_stop"](#template_stop) for [Template::Perlish](https://metacpan.org/pod/Template::Perlish), defaulting to `%]`;

- `routes`

    an array of route specifications. Each specification is an hash with the
    following possible keys:

    - `body`

        a [Template::Perlish](https://metacpan.org/pod/Template::Perlish) text that will be used to generate the body for the
        response (but see also ["body\_wrapper"](#body_wrapper));

    - `body_wrapper`

        a [Template::Perlish](https://metacpan.org/pod/Template::Perlish) text that, if defined, will be used to wrap
        whatever is generated by ["body"](#body). For example, in the following
        definition:

            # ...
            body: 'id -> [% stash.id %]'
            body_wrapper: >
               Hello, [% recipient %]. Here is what we have:
               [% content %]

        So, whatever is generated by ["body"](#body) can then be wrapped in
        `body_wrapper` using the new variable `content` for espanding its text;

    - `code`

        the code to return for the call

    - `headers`

        array of key/value pairs for defining headers in the response. Each
        _value_ is treated as a [Template::Perlish](https://metacpan.org/pod/Template::Perlish) template;

    - `method`

        the HTTP method name. See ["methods"](#methods) if you want to specify more than
        one;

    - `methods`

        an array with the list of HTTP methods;

    - `path`

        the path of the route, anything accepted by [Mojolicious](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious) will do,
        including placeholders and other amenities (e.g. `/` or `/foo/:bar`).

    All [Template::Perlish](https://metacpan.org/pod/Template::Perlish) templates have access to the following variables:

    - `body_params`: all parameters in the body of a `POST` request;
    - `config`: the configuration file contents
    - `controller`: the [Mojolicious::Controller](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojolicious::Controller) object that catched the
    request;
    - `headers`: headers in the request, as [Mojo::Headers](https://metacpan.org/pod/Mojo::Headers);
    - `params`: all parameters from the request (both `GET` and `POST`);
    - `query_params`: all parameters in the query (mostly for a `GET`
    request);
    - `spec`: the full specification that originated a specific route;
    - `stash`: the stash values for the request;
    - `v`: a shortcut to sub-item `v` inside the `config`, to ease your life
    for tracking your own variables.

    In addition, ["body\_wrapper"](#body_wrapper) can also access whatever is generated by
    ["body"](#body) through the key `content`.

## Example

The following commented example should get you started.

    defaults:
       body_wrapper: |
          {
             "status": true,
             "data": [% content %]}
       headers:
          - X-Whatever: hello
          X-Hey: "You [%= join '/', sort keys %{V('headers')} %] rock"

    somestuff: &somestuff >
       {"hey":"joe"}

    v:
       some_array:
          - one
          - two
          - three
       x: starter

    routes:

       # this route gets the same behaviour for GETs and POSTs.
       # Default body_wrapper applies here because there's no overriding
       - path: '/'
         methods: [ GET, post ]
         headers:
             - Server: 'My::Server'
         body: '{"message":"ciao [% query_params.name %]"}'

       # this route gets a custom wrapping and a single method
       - path: '/simple'
         method: get
         headers:
             - Content-Type: text/plain
         body: 'hullo'
         body_wrapper: "I say: [% content %]\n"

       # this route does not get and wrapping at all
       - path: '/nowrap'
         method: get
         headers:
             - Content-Type: text/plain
         body: "LOOK MA', NO WRAP!\n"
         body_wrapper: ~

       # this leverages upon YAML to get stuff around in this file
       - path: '/somestuff'
         body: *somestuff
         headers:
             - Content-Type: text/plain

       # this modifies a variable that can be reused in following requests
       - path: '/add'
         method: post
         body: |
             [%= push @{V "v.some_array"}, time(); "ok" %]
         body_wrapper: ~

       # this prints out the list in v.some_array (see above). It can be
       # used to check that /add actually works
       - path: '/visit-config'
         body: >
             [[%= join ", ", map { qq{"$_"} } A "v.some_array" %]]

       # these two team up. The first one prepares the answer that the second
       # will give out
       - path: '/prepare/:id'
         method: post
         body: '[% V("v")->{x} = (A("v.some_array"))[V "stash.id"]; %]'
         code: 204
         body_wrapper: ~

       - path: '/whatnow'
         method: get
         body: '[% v.x %]'
         body_wrapper: ~

# BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

Report bugs through GitHub (patches welcome).

# SEE ALSO

[WebService::Fake](https://metacpan.org/pod/WebService::Fake).

# AUTHOR

Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

# COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2016 by Flavio Poletti <polettix@cpan.org>

This module is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
